PageRank using Random Walks
===========================
In this program [PageRank]() algorithm has been implemented using [random walk](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Random_walk) technique.
## Description of the Implementation
Given a [random](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Random_graph) directed graph, we will perform random walk on it until all the nodes are visited at least once.  
When we visit a node, we will assign to it a point (random-walk-point). If a node is encountered again then we will simply increment its random-walk-point(s) by 1.  
Also, if we reach a node that has no outlinks ([sink node](http://mathworld.wolfram.com/DigraphSink.html)) such that we can't take a random walk any further, we then select a node at random from the graph and resume our random walk from that node. This is known as Teleportation.  
We keep on doing the random walk for a large number of iterations to make sure that all the nodes are visited at least once.  
Now, we sort (rank) the nodes on the basis of random-walk-points accumulated by them.  
This ranking yields the PageRank of individual nodes in the graph.  
To check the correctness of our algorithm, we compare our results with that generated by using the builtin PageRank algorithm function in [Networkx](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NetworkX) library.
### Why does this algorithm work ?
While doing random walk on the graph, we visit a node more often if it has high [indegree](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Directed_graph#Indegree_and_outdegree). Since, such a node receives more visits, hence it accumulates more random-walk-points. More the random-walk-points accumulated by a node, higher is its rank among all the nodes.
#### Note :
There are two properties of a node which make it more important in the graph structure :
* High indegree — large number of inlinks.
* The nodes which are connected to this node via inlinks should also have high indegree.  
    E.g. A person is famous when famous people are his/her friends, and those people are famous when even more famous people are their friends. (___A recursive phenomenon___)

----
Sometimes, the two rankings (from our implementation & from builtin function) will differ due to either or both of the following reasons :
* __Taking a random walk is a [stochastic process](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stochastic_process), it depends on probability.__  
    It is quite possible that we may end up visiting a certain node more often than some other node, even though both the nodes have the same indegree.  
    If two nodes have the same configuration ([indegree and outdegree](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Directed_graph#Indegree_and_outdegree)), then it is a rare probability that we visit these two nodes the same number of times while doing random walk on the graph.
* __Two nodes have the same ranking.__  
    In this case the difference in ranking doesn't matter because the two nodes have the same importance in the graph structure.
